gedit-mode
==========

gedit-mode is a minor mode for Emacs. It aims to tame Emacs' archaic
default keybindings and make them more accessible to novice users.
Although titled "GEdit" mode, users of every graphical application
ever written should find most of these keybindings familiar. GEdit was
simply chosen as the namesake since that is what I was primarily using
before I discovered Emacs.

Why don't you just use GEdit if you like it so much?
----------------------------------------------------

Listen buddy, I don't like your attitude!

Seriously though, once I had a taste of Elisp, I was totally hooked on
Emacs. I actually tried to reimplement some basic Emacs features as
Python plugins inside GEdit, but gave up when I discovered that a
10-line whitespace-stripping elisp snippet required 100 lines of
Python code to implement in GEdit.

So, if you are a vetern Emacs ninja, this mode may be of little
interest to you. But if you are just starting out and you find the
default keybindings intimidating, then I encourage you to give this
a try.

Installation
------------

gedit-mode is now hosted on MELPA! Type `M-x package-install gedit-mode`,
then add the following code to your init file:

    (require 'gedit-mode)
    (global-gedit-mode)

For the complete experience, you'll want sr-speedbar, shell-pop, and
tabbar packages. I've listed those as requirements in the package,
although gedit-mode is smart enough not to explode if they're missing.
I also personally recommend visual-regexp and ace-jump-mode, although
those have nothing to do with GEdit ;-)

Where can I find out what keybindings GEdit uses?
-------------------------------------------------

https://help.gnome.org/users/gedit/stable/gedit-shortcut-keys.html.en

Also, gedit-mode.el itself is fairly easy to read as long as you're
familiar with the traditional Emacs keystroke notation.
